The Joe Rogan.
Experience. And I was kind of expat. I grew up in a machine shop.
My dad was a machinist. So I was doing that from like five years old.
I was sweeping the floor. And I was like, I was like, man,
this is not what I'm meant to be like, I'm supposed to be something great. But,
uh, but everybody around me is, I know this is what you do.
You live in this little town and you do you follow the rules,
you're going to be a machine or a farmer or a, you know, whatever. And,
uh, you know, that me off, you know,
and I never really found my niche. And so I was homeschooled actually for,
I think, two years in a junior high.
So I think that was sort of actually the start because I went back to school and
when I went back to school, I was now the outsider. I didn't have any friends.
Um, and then going up, uh,
all of a sudden I'm in high school and I have no friends. I have no, uh,
I can't get laid for. Um,
I think that's what causes Angie and a lot of people in the world, right?
Oh yeah. And depression. Yeah.
Yeah, yeah. Yeah. And at the exact same time,
I'm starting to experiment with drugs and alcohol.
So you put the two together, you know, um, I was supposed to be, um,
the prodigal son, you know what I mean? Like I was very intelligent. I was,
um, you know,
I was doing things by the time I was 15 years old in the machine shop that,
that guys, you know, they'd been working for my father for 10,
15 years. Couldn't do you know what I mean? So I was sort of,
this product was signed.
I was good at athletics and everything had no problem with all that stuff.
So I think, uh, it was just sort of a backlash, you know,
and then I let that anger get the best of me.
So now when you were doing drugs and alcohol,
what were the drugs like? What was the drug that caused you to overdose heroin.
Injection? Yeah.
That's deep when you're injecting it. That's when you're all in baby. Yeah.
Yeah. And you know, I didn't actually do it a whole lot.
It's kind of the funny thing.
A lot of people thought that I was addicted to heroin and I wasn't that,
I think that was probably the fifth time that I did it, maybe six,
something like that. I didn't count. But, um, you know,
that was sorta my fun. That was my step into the dark side. Um,
you know, and, and a blessing and a curse man, you know,
it immediately hoes like, oh, okay. That's what can happen. Right.
It's the step back. Uh, and you know, I was very naive, very,
uh, man, I was a fool really like, cause what I did,
I remember leaving the, uh, uh, the hospital and I was like, okay,
well I'm never doing heroin again, but let's go do some Coke.
Right. So I was just a dummy man. Um,
I think I was 21, 22, uh, one of those, uh, I mean it was like 15 years ago.
There was a lot of stuff. I, I, I was actually kind of thinking about like,
so again, you know, on this podcast I was like, uh, that, you know,
this is probably going to come up on it as a pretty, uh, intense story. Um,
I was like, I can't remember all the details of that.
It was like a long time ago, but anyway, yeah. So I was like 21, 22.
And, um, it wasn't too much long later, you know,
I live with this girl and, you know, she was a drug addict too.
And she had a couple of kids and it was like, it was like, all right,
well now I got a place to live. Like let's get up,
you know? And then I never did, um,
heroin again after that, obviously. Um, I think I did Oxy,
so Percocet stuff I got, which is basically the same thing. Right. Which,
I mean, I didn't realize it at the time,
but really my drug of choice was meth back in that day.
That was what I really liked.
And that was actually what I was addicted to at one point.
And I ended up going to jail and that was what got me,
uh, out of addiction. I didn't realize I was addicted until I was in jail.
So what made you realize that when you were in jail? Uh, just,
I just couldn't stop thinking about it and just one it and just, I mean,
I didn't get to have like, like, um, like cold sweats or anything.
I don't think that happens with uppers, but, um, I mean, I was just, you know,
like, like I couldn't stop thinking about it, man. I was like, dude,
like just a lot of that anger was coming out or I was just like, God,
like what the? I want to fight everybody. I was like,
somebody gave me something, you know? And wow. Yeah.
It was just really terrible experience, but probably my lasted three, four days.
Not even, maybe not even that. And then you came out of it. Yeah. I mean,
I was just like, eh, able to accept my fate and, and deal with it.
What does it feel like to be on meth? Uh, you have to take Adderall.
I had never taken an Adderall. No, I'm
pretty similar to Adderall. Right? It's like Adderall. I mean,
that's the closest I would say. Um,
I mean you're high. Um, but you don't have, I mean,
it said that euphoria more than anything, just to, excuse me,
just an extreme sense of euphoria. Just everything is beautiful,
but then men, soon as you start to lose out a little bit,
you just itch for it so bad man.
So bad that you just want it again. You, you,
you don't want to sleep how your teeth to be grinding in your psych.
Like you you're just tensing up all your muscles. I, God,
I got to get more of that. You know?
Now when you're working out at all back then, no, no, well I'd say,
well not working out like it should be. So again, I was angry a lot of times,
like, I'd be at a party that this was a common thing.
I'd be at like a party or just doing drugs, whatever.
And I just started getting, look at everybody. I don't like, none of you.
And I would just walk outside and I would go for a run, I'd run five, six miles,
come back and be like, all right, give me another line or whatever. Wow. Yeah.
Um, run and then come back to the park. Yeah. And then sometimes I would,
I would fight people, you know, that was common. Very,
very common if you call that working out.
And we did like this particular time in my life,
I was living in a little town called Jamestown, Ohio, and I had this buddy,
um, he was friend, his cousin,
his cousin was a fighter and this was kind of my first, uh,
uh, foray into mixed martial arts, our first, uh,
experience watching it and everything. And, uh,
they would train in the grass in the backyard. You know, we,
I remember watching Ken Shamrock DVDs are VHS's
back then. Um, leg locks, we'd go on the living room floor.
Like just be faced drunk.
And I'm lucky I didn't tear my ACL or thing where like, oh,
this is what he's doing is how you doing. Yeah, he'll hooks. And I mean,
I don't remember all the techniques, but I remember it was like, you know,
Pankration stuff. Right. And we just be laying there in it.
And it was always a thought of like, my dude is awesome, man.
Like I could beat tank habit, like, you know,
and we would joke about it, man. We would say,
I remember specifically sit in there and be like, dude, like, you know,
we're gonna get you a fight in, uh, you know, the local Joe Schmo show.
And then, uh, you know,
we're going to get you up and you're going to go to a pride and then you're
going to go to the UFC. And I was like, oh cool. The hell. Yeah, let's do it.
And that was, you know, it was like a joke kind of,
but that was what was in my head. That's so that's what we were going to do.
Action to martial arts. Yeah. So what was your first real formal training?
Like what, what Jim did you first?
So I fought before I trained chip the. Yeah.
Yeah. So,
so actually there's this guy that was a, um,
he was supposed to go fight west Sims and uh, his name was fat.
Joe was what we called him.
He was supposed to go fight Watson fat Simms west Sims that day.
And I said, yeah, let's go, man. I want to go with you.
I want to see this up close. Right. So we go there and I'm, I'm,
I'm doing a bunch of Coke on the way. And you know, to me,
it's just going to be a party. Like, I'm just gonna watch my dude fight.
I get there. And uh, you know, there's a,
he signs up on the table and I was like, dude, what is that? How you, you know,
that's all you gotta do. He's like, yeah, he's a,
he just paid 30 bucks and he'd come by. And I said, man, maybe I should do that.
And then the guy and I'm looking inside and I see the, uh, you know,
people sit around smoking cigars, like you see on a movie, people smoke cigars,
you see bets being made and stuff. And, and uh, the guy who was men,
you want to fight the champion. Like nobody wants to fight him. And I was like.
Yeah, man, I'll fight him. You kidding me?
So I literally went across the street.
There's a sporting goods store across the street or down the street or something
and went and bought a mouthpiece, come back. Uh,
there's a restaurant across the street, boil the mouthpiece at the restaurant,
use their microwave, come back. And then, uh,
and then we're at the fighter's meeting.
So the fighter's meeting back then was a lot different. So there wasn't way in,
it was like you and you, you guys look about the same size, uh,
you guys doing kickboxing. Okay. You guys fight. Right. So that's how,
the way it worked out and I'm sitting there and they're like, okay,
you're the champion. You're fighting him. And I was like, oh. All right, this.
Right. And, uh, you know, so, um, [inaudible] this guy,
he taught me how to do a jab. He's like, man, he's like,
all you gotta do to beat this guy. Just jab him. He's like, you see this just,
don't just jab. I was like, oh, okay, I'm gonna do that. And uh,
went out there and I beat the guy. So he actually quit. Yeah. He actually quit.
You know? So he was a tough man champion is what he was. And uh,
I actually threw a jab, punched him in the face and he went to shoot on me.
I did, you know, uh, playground guillotine choke, and he just quit.
I don't think I actually had the joke in. I don't,
I highly doubt he tapped out saying that his calf
cramped up. I have no idea. Like,
wow. It really happened. I mean, I certainly didn't know a guillotine choke it,
even though the name of it. So, uh, anyway, later that night he was like, dude,
like you're fighting Gover along. You will fight again. Yeah. Whatever man.
And I said, well, this guy, you know, he's going pro in his next boxing match,
your kickboxer fight him. I said, all right, I'll him up. Right.
Because dude beat the out of him. So that was actually the first,
the nice thing about that was it actually made me realize how tough I am.
That was the saving grace. I mean, he just, you know, just pieced me up,
just one punch after another, you know, I'm just eating punch after punch.
And then, uh, yeah, that was it. I said, man, I gotta do this. And then,
so my second fight, uh, I, you know, I didn't think I still yet needed to train.
Uh, my second fight, I met a guy at a gym. So, you know,
I did go to this gym as a Japanese jujitsu gym and he goes, and he goes,
Hey man, you want to fight in like two weeks in Moyer tie. Hell yeah. Right. Um,
so for two weeks, you know, I'd hit the bag probably for five minutes at a time,
whatever something. Um, I go to the fight and uh, man,
this is the worst part. So I get in there. The first thing the guy does,
comes and shoots on me. It takes me down. We're in big gloves. Uh,
shin pads on us takes me down. I'll get up,
look at what the he's taking me down. We can't do this more time. Right.
Uh, music fight, you know, comes, it takes me down again. I said, what the man?
So I was like, okay, so we're wrestling. Right?
So I come out and get in sort of a wrestling standards, drop my hands,
kicks me in my head. So, uh,
we'll come find out later saying shall no,
Scott Sheely's show w I used to work with him a lot.
Sand shall for people that know was.
A kickboxing would take downs.
I cornered Clarice Smith back in the day when Maurice was doing that once
in Burbank, I think it was, it was weird. It was confusing. It's like,
okay. I mean, it's interesting. I guess. I mean,
it's probably a good skill set to learn,
learn how to do take-downs and throws with, with kickboxing,
but then you just let the guy up, which is just weird.
You didn't get it. Huh? He was weird. Yeah. Yeah. I mean,
it still goes on de San dos. I think he's amazing sport. Yeah.
I love it. It's amazing.
And it's only a lot of times there's a lot like throws in [inaudible] cause you
know, there's a lot of trips and throws and [inaudible].
He said you get points for that throws up to five. Yeah.
Another variation. Yeah. Yeah. So.
If like their feet go above their head, it's five points.
So when did you get serious? So you did this. It was right after.
That. Cause, cause I mean, he'd beat the out of me. Um, I like,
I remember walking out of there and people were looking at me like,
how'd you survive Hasbro? I mean,
and like people were actually asking me how like, dude, how'd you survive that?
Like, I don't know. I do. And I had to go to work that night.
I was like working third shift.
I got to go to work right after everybody was looking at me at work. I did,
you got like two black eyes they have anyway. Um, that was when I,
uh, said to myself, you know, I want to try this. And you know, I think, uh,
you know, this is, uh, something I really enjoy and I want to go for it. Um,
so I met this guy, um, uh,
his name was Eli heirs and he was fighting in king of the cage once I've ever
met. And then he got Brayden Workman and uh, they were training for,
it was a big show there in Columbus. Um, I can't remember name of show,
but I think Lawler fought on it. Like a bunch of military guys, Tim Sylvia,
you know the name if I said, I can't remember, but anyway, um, yeah. And then,
you know, then I really got the kicked out on me when I got in the gym,
you know, then I realized like, you know, what a real beating was and uh, yeah,
it just went from there, man. Cause I,
I just said I never looked back and I thought, man, you know,
I want to change my life. You know, I'm, I'm, you know, I,
wasn't never actually a uh,
the type of person that fit in with the drug user scene, right?
Like that wasn't me. It was just a, again,
an expression of anger and these things that, um, you know,
in my childhood just kind of came out the wrong way. Right.
So it wasn't really a, like I fit in there. Um, so at this point,
like I'm, I'm really not fitting in anywhere. And this was, uh,
a quote that I remember where I said,
I stopped trying to find yourself and start to define yourself.
And I felt like the whole time I was trying to find myself and I said, you know,
I'm a, I'm a define who the I am. I'm going to say, this is what I am.
This is what I do. I'm a fighter. it. Let's go. It's do or die. Um,
I've, I've been to jail and dad, I've been, you, uh,
I've slept in on, in the snow. You know what I mean? Like I've been homeless,
I've done every low thing you can do.
Like what's the worst that can happen to get knocked out. There's nothing. So,
uh, you know, I decided to, you know,
this is my path and I'm going to carve the path.
I'm not going to search for a path.
I'm going to make the path and I'm not going to look back and I'm going to the
top of that mountain. And, uh,
and that's something I still talk about today when I talk to people is about,
uh, I didn't have any idea how I was going to do it,
but I knew why I was going to do it. And I knew that I was going to do it.
And I think, um,
in my own personal struggles and I think in a lot of people's struggles,
they kind of get caught up in the, how, you know, how am I going to do this?
How am I gonna win this fight, whatever. And I think when you understand your,
why I think the, how becomes a lot more, um, clear,
clear, yeah, more clear and easier. I mean, it doesn't matter anymore.
You could do, it's better to do it a hundred percent wrong than 50%. Right.